- [Instructor] So as promised now, it's time to see how
similar it is to expose a ReSTful web service using Spring.
So we are going to expose our room reservations via JSON
using a ReSTful web service.
I'd like you to open up your IDE and go to source main Java,
go into our base package, and within there,
create a new package that we will call webservice.
Now, within that webservice,
we are going to create a new class, and this class,
we will simply call WebserviceController.
Now, I tend to do web services in the same way
that I do web pages, in that each controller responds
to a single URL with the given methods underneath them.
For the purposes of this demo, however,
we're going to put all of our web services in one class,
just to make it a little bit easier, and also so that
I can show you how to extend request mapping
a little bit easier.
So within this class, we're going to annotate this
with @RestController, and this is going to tell Spring
to put an app response body on each of our methods,
and that response body will take the data object
that we return converted into a JSON payload,
and return that JSON payload out through our web interface.
We're also going to annotate this with @RequestMapping,
and we're going to respond /api.
Go ahead and import that in.
And now we're going to go through a few things
that we've done before.
So we're going to do private final DateUtils
and bring in an instance of that,
and private final ReservationService.
And now we will create a constructor for that.
And now we will do an @RequestMapping,
and we are going to respond on a path of /reservations.
Now, this is going to look very similar,
because our webpage responded at /reservations.
However, because this class is annotated with /api,
and then we are going to annotate this method
with /reservations, the actual URL that this web service
will respond on is /api/reservations, so request mapping
is additive as you go through.
We are also going to take and do this at a get method.
So now we need to do our method signature.
So we would do public list of RoomReservation,
getReservations, and to that,
we're going to do an @RequestParam.
It's going to have a value of date, a required of false,
and this will be of type string,
and we will call this DateString.
So now, just like we did on our webpage,
we will get an instance of date
from our dateUtils.createDateFrom string.
So remember, if this comes in as null
and we made it required equal false in our parameter,
we will convert the date into now,
so that way it will always respond with at least a date,
so we are null safe here.
And now we can simply return the output
from the reservation service at getRoomReservation for date,
passing in our new date.
So we have no model to deal with, we simply return
the object and Spring will take care of the rest of it.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to going to and run
this application, allow it to come up.
Now I'm going to open up a browser and I'm going to navigate
to localhost:8080/api/reservations,
and you'll see that I get a JSON body out.
Now, I've got a little bit of a JSON formatter here.
It doesn't work for every web browser for you to see this
in formatted JSON, but you can always copy and paste this
into a document, or you could just use curl or HTTPie,
depending on what tool you use from the command line.
The important thing here is that we're responding at an API
and getting a JSON payload out, and much like we did before,
we can set our date equal to 2022-01-01,
and you'll see in our second element here,
we actually did get a reservation,
because that's what the payload allows to come out.
All of that marshaling was handled for us
by the Spring framework using Jackson.
Now, you could extend this.
You could pass an object in on, say, a post method
or a put method and allow it to do its work,
and we're going to go into our challenge next
and you're going to get to do just that.